How does a great question I'll be honest. I took the Jerry almost 30 years
ago and it was a very different test back then. It was, I mean,
wasn't administered on computers. So, like your next question was not
dependent on how you answered the current question. Um, and they
also scored it differently. So there were some kind of guideline cutoffs
when I was applying. So so each. There was a quant and, um and
ah, the verbal part. So verbal and quant. And then there was your subject
test. And so the verbal in the quiet and they also had a logic
section. So the verbal in the quant that we're both worth 800 points
and so combined the kind of general idea was that you needed to have
at least 1000 to get into, like, a master's level graduate course
and at least 1200 to get into a PhD level. Uh, course of study, um,
and so but they score it differently now, so I'm not really sure, like
what modern day scores like, how that equivalents to the older scores.
And I don't even know if the cutoffs are still the same What
I do know is that every program will list its average g R E score for,
like, it's incoming classes. And so one of the things that you can
dio is you can look around a different programs like Let's say that
you're interested in industrial organizational psychology and you
do a little research and you find, you know, maybe 20 schools that offer
a degree, and you kind of look at their reputations and see how
they how they are, Um, and then look at those schools and see what
air their requirements for the G R E scores. And that's essentially
what you want to shoot for is you want to shoot for the level that's
required by the programs in schools that you are interested in. Um
um, the other thing that I will say about the G R E scores is that a
lo G R E score can definitely get your application like eliminated
from the pool. And that's honestly, I think, the main purpose that they
serve, um, this is an easy metric with which thio eliminate applications.
So if you've got 100 applications and you know you've only
got 10 positions you want to find a way, thio easily go through those
100 applications and get rid of the applications that you just know
you don't want. Um and so one way to do that is Thio use g r E cutoffs
and G p a cut offs. And so those are the big two that are kind
of used for that first cull of applications. So a lo g r E score can
hurt you, but conversely Ah, hi. Really. Hi, Jerry. Score isn't necessarily
going to help you. I mean, it may prevent you from getting
eliminated, but this is not going to get you into graduate school.
Like most people are not admitted to graduate school because they have
amazing g r e scores. That's not what makes the decision. When it
comes to the application, the application itself, the personal statement,
the letters of recommendation usually count for more than a g
r E score. But if you want to know, you know a number like I need this
amount. My best advice to you is just to go to the schools and the
programs that you're interested in, applying Thio and see what they're
requiring